DYNAMICS + PLYOMETRICS
OVERVIEW
Dynamics and plyometrics CAN mean the same thing, although they have their differences. Dynamics are a sequential series of repeated movements used to prepare the body for an upcoming activity. In the case of running, they can be used before all types of runs (easy runs, long runs, workouts, etc.), although it's especially important to do before your workout days. These exercises can come in the form of lighter and more active movements. The latter form could, in some cases, be considered plyometrics, or those fast and explosive exercises. However, it's not really plyometric unless the exercise involves some form of jumping, hopping, bounding, or skipping, where you're forced to generate a high amount of force in a very short interval. Plyometrics can be used as a workout in and of themselves, and should NOT be done extensively before an upcoming workout. You might do a larger plyometric routine before or after an easy run, depending on what the desired adaptation is, for a total of one to two times a week. Suffice to say, dynamics are usually less intense than plyometrics, but both can be utilized in preparing the body for those harder workout days. Notably, dynamic exercises should be done roughly 20-30 feet at a time, so you might go out 20-30 feet doing one exercise, turn around, come back to where you started with another exercise, then repeat those steps until you've run through all of your exercises. When it comes to finding the right exercises for you, it's a process of elimination. Start by selecting a handful of dynamic exercises to use pre-run, maybe four to six, and try them out. Keep whichever ones you like and throw out the remaining ones, filtering in some new ones to try and repeating this process until you've got a solid set of, say, 8-10 exercises, both lighter and more active. In this way, you might have a near 50-50 split of six lighter movements and four more involved movements.

GENERAL STRUCTURE
As described above, like with most things in running, you should gradually progress from easier to harder exercises for both dynamic and plyometric exercises. A dynamic warm-up should start with lighter movements and then transition towards more active movements, possibly integrating some of the plyometric exercises, too, say two or three.

EXAMPLES
There are a plethora of dynamic exercises:
Lighter movements: Leg swings for both legs (sideways, forward, forward knee drive), quad stretch, figure 4 stretch, hamstring scoops, knee pulls, toe and heel walks, hip openers and closers, frankensteins, forward and sideways lunges, squats
More active movements: A-skips, B-skips, C-skips, high knees, lunges (sideways, forward, backward), ankle hops, jumping jacks, pogo hops (single-leg and both), jump rope, jumping jacks Here are some plyometric exercises: - Pogo hops (single-leg and both), jump rope, box jumps, frog (or squat) jumps, split scissor jump, two-legged forward jump, alternating single-leg bounding, single-leg forward hop, stepping-drop jump, lateral line jumps / side hops, high-box double jump, burpees, jumping lunge