INJURY
OVERVIEW
Injuries suck and can take you out of running for a long time (depending on the severity). They're pretty much inevitable with runners given the repetitive, high-stress of the running movement. Primarily, these injuries pop up in the lower body given that's where a large amount of the ground reaction force goes to. An important thing to note is that the root cause of an injury is almost always NOT at the site of the pain/discomfort (unless there was blunt force trauma). Rather, it's often an issue above or below that pain source, interestingly enough. For example, if you have knee pain, it could be an issue of calf weakness, inadequate ankle stability/strength/mobility, quad/hamstring weakness, and/or glute/hip weakness. Knee injuries are one of the most common injuries, largely due to everything having to be strong and stable above and below. 

To proactively prevent injuries, you should stay on top of strength training, hydration, nutrition, sleep, having good warmup and cooldown routines, etc. If/when the situation arises that you're injured, take 3-7 days off and see how the body feels after that time off. If the injury is still present, even if to a lesser degree, I'd advise you to see a physical therapist to get you on the right track. If it's a 1-2/10 on the pain scale, you might be okay to ease back into exercise, but I always say that if the pain is becoming a 3-4/10 whether before or during activity, then you shouldn't be running. Alternatively, you can try some things on your own before seeing a PT such as light bodyweight exercises (e.g., basic movements like squats, lunges, glute bridges, etc.) and stretching/mobility. More often than not, runners have weak glutes, so if you're doing things on your own, try adding glute bridges. However, seeing a PT or at least having one to reach out to could help you get back on track quicker than if you were to try resolving things on your own. Importantly, try to get a running-specific physical therapist, someone that knows how to treat a runner specifically and hopefully is/was a runner themselves. Additionally, if you can, get your PTs number so that if/when you get injured again (an unfortunate but common reality), you can reach out to them and get some suggestions/advice before immediately throwing yourself into PT again. This could save you money and time. 

Generally, with PT, you can expect to receive an eventual routine of 4-6 exercises broken up into 2-3 sets of 8-12 reps, although you might start with only one or two exercises to start. A common approach PTs will take is to first, find one or two stretches or lighter strength exercises that'll improve your pain in the short-term, then two, after some amount of time doing those lighter stretches/exercises, add in some strength/stability-focused exercises. It's important that an injury rehab process is not overloaded with exercises from the start so that you know what is and isn't working to improve your pain. Thus, if your PT is throwing you a bunch of exercises right from the start, that could be a red flag telling you to find another PT. 

Once you're in the clear feeling good and running again, be careful and keep an eye out for any signs of the past injury arising again. If you feel a familiar ache/pain or new one, keep an eye on it and dial back training as needed. Do NOT run through something that feels off, either take a few days to run extra easy and short or just don't run. Otherwise, you risk putting yourself back into a cycle of PT.