RECOVERY
OVERVIEW
Recovery is an essential component to training that allows you to absorb your training to the fullest. Without it, a lot of hard work is being put to waste. As Steve Magness puts it, Stress + Rest = Growth. This should be an emphasis after most, if not all, of your runs (regardless of type), but especially harder days (e.g., workouts and long runs). Although there are many different recovery methods, what I'd suggest is to finish your runs with a short walk of 5-10 minutes in length, rather than finishing at your house and instantly plopping on your floor. There are many benefits to doing a post-run walk, the main one being it promotes increased blood flow to your muscles, boosting recovery. It also allows more corrosive bodily substances to be flushed out of the body. Then, go to an open area where you can do some foam-rolling and/or static stretching to further increase blood flow, loosen up the joints, reduce any soreness, amongst other things. To be fair, the research seems to suggest that foam-rolling pre-run is more beneficial than post-run, but I like to do it after, too, as it makes me feel better, especially after workouts. At this point, you've done some good things for your body to enhance the recovery process, and all that's left is to eat some food with protein and carbohydrates! After workouts, within 20-30 minutes, this should especially be a priority. During this whole post-run recovery routine, drink plenty of water as hydration is a key element often underlooked, especially crucial for the hotter days. Having said all of that, the MOST IMPORTANT recovery tool is SLEEP. You should be shooting for at least seven hours but eight to nine is best. When you're deep into training and running longer and/or faster, getting good and long sleep becomes especially important. If you’re not prioritizing sleep, nutrition, hydration, and rest, you’re not going to absorb your training nearly as well and it might end in injury and/or performance stagnation. 

For additional tips/tricks on recovery, look to my other sections such as the nutrition, sleep, and foam rolling ones!
GENERAL STRUCTURE
Like I said above, a post-run routine should look something like the following: 
Post-run 5-10' walk
Foam-rolling and/or static stretching
Food
Hydration during all three steps above

If you’ve done a workout, insert an extra step after the post-run walk to get in some quick carbs/protein (e.g., protein shake).