RETURN TO RUNNING
OVERVIEW
Returning to running post-injury can be a stressful, paranoia-filled process. The timeline for returning to full-on running can be very different from one person to the next depending on the individual, their injury history, and the injury they're currently bouncing back from. Generally, I suggest that you wait to start running again post-injury until you don't notice the injury for three days straight. If you've gone three days straight feeling good with little to no pain, you can introduce some light easy running over the next 3-7 days, easier and shorter than you're used to. If that feels good, you can progress back into your typical easy run pace and distance. If you've gone a week or more feeling good at your typical easy run pace and distance, introduce some light strides and/or hill sprints to see how your body responds to some faster running. From there, you can slowly work in lighter workouts and progress those to eventually get to the level of training you were at before the injury. Ultimately, if you have/had a PT, you should work with them in determining how to return to full-on training. If you've been out of running for a while due to injury, your return to running should be much slower than if you were only out for a week or so. You might start by alternating one day running with one day off, then two days running with one day off, then three days running with one day off, and so on until you're back to where you want to be. You might also want to start with walk-jog alternations and ease your way into more steady, straight running.